Welcome, everyone.
So in this section we will understand what is exponential.
How does x one intuition work and why do we need it?
First of all, let us see what is exponential.
Again, it's a very simple mathematical formula, and that is if I multiply a B times.
And I did it with the power.
This is normal.
Exponential.
So be the next one.
End of it.
And.
This is basically the number of times is be right no base for school.
So if I say is two and B is four.
But I don't see any indication these were still through to the power four will give me.
16 eight.
So this is excluding Egyptian.
We all know this that if I want to multiply or turn B times, we get this.
So that's not what this lecture is about.
It is about how to find an optimal solution to finding and to finding the best complexity of X for an
intuition.
If I want to find out the best best complexity of X for an injection that okay, find me it to the power
being very, very optimal time.
What are the best you can do?
The first approach is very simple that okay, I can simply multiply ab times.
Eight.
But what's the total complexity of this?
If I multiply every times by using a for a loop, it will be all of B eight.
But that is not the complexity we want.
We want it to be better than what we have or will do is we will seek help of binary functions eight
and we will call it binary exponential.
You will.
This will be very, very handy, guys, believe me or not, in most of those of problems in which we
use mathematical expressions, in which like, let's say there's an elegant solution which is being
solved and that reconciliation is being like there's finally a formula that is coming up for a particular
end, let's say N squared minus two, n plus one or and the power sum M minus something plus something.
And it doesn't.
So whenever there's a formula on generally we have some exponents, we have some of variables in there,
we have some constraints and some explaining how to solve those exponents in really very listing.
So right now we are looking at binary exponents and after this we'll be looking at Model X funding.
Well, then that will only require by an exponential.
But still.
Now let's move ahead with binary exponential.
And let's take an example.
So it's a very easy topic.
It's not a big deal and a very short code for this to wait.
So it won't take like more than 2 minutes.
But yeah, let's say I want to find out to the power ten.
Well, what we do is we take the exponent and and write it in in binding numbers and we know exponent
is this then if divided into bind, it is written as 1010.
Eight.
If this band is written as 100108 means eight +28.
So what does it plus two means that yes, I divided the standard to binary eight.
So.
Well.
So now let's see how it is by the exponential work rate right now where Delta is.
I'll take A, I'll take B and I will take another dump called resulting in result.
And what I'll do is I'll keep on multiplying in some specific locations.
So just see this.
Initially, what happens is is equal to two B's equals to ten and resultant is equal to one eight.
Because if I'm, I want to multiply something two resulting in one sum of answers.
So I should take one as the result in value, not zero.
Because if I multiply, ending with 000 is like a black hole, right?
You do anything with it, it will just absorb that thing and make it zero.
Yeah.
So in the first step, what we'll do is okay, so right now like being binary for all to be binary or
very.
So there are some steps that we need to follow.
The first step is very simple.
That.
Check if we last check.
Rate of fee is set eight ways.
If the last last said last bit of be said night notice not set then what we'll do is will simply say
it is a will simply multiply.
He's returning to it.
So I'm just not giving you a algorithm here.
I'm just not giving you a writing opportunity about and also explain you like how did it come before
it?
Before moving on to that, I just simply write to do the power that can be written is to devolve into
truly the power to it.
This is the whole point is that we will simply divide those powers and multiply them.
And I if I multiply to do the power to the to.
This will give me to the depravity plus two.
Which is.
Through the power.
And this is a normal fundraiser.
Now, the main idea behind binary X1 intuition.
Right.
And how is that being done?
That.
I'll simply show you where they go.
Well, before moving on to the algorithm, let let's take this quick example.
So we have 1010 here.
What I do is.
Zero one, two and three at eight.
If I did, I was off to what?
I'll get to devour zero.
To devour one, to do the power to and to do the power three h.
I won't do for it.
I've just written to lose powers over here.
These are two his powers.
And this is binary often.
And these are just indexes of my pitch.
EDWARDS Okay.
Now what I need to do is simple.
So here I'll get to the deeper one.
Initially red.
Right now my is to the deep blue.
And so this will be.
Then to do the power to do the the power forward and to the the poverty rate is the simple thing to
notice is that if I have one, as I said, then I'll simply include these two values into my resultant.
Simply multiply these two values into my resulting aid to the returning to the power rate.
Integrity by forward is equal to resultant.
And this will become.
To study due to the power this will become.
To read about it in is not a big deal.
Okay.
So this is not true.
This is a.
That's what we are going to do.
So for another example, let's say I want to find out who did power or didn't.
So it is eight plus six.
Six is for.
Bless you, Rachel.
This is voting for this.
How can I write to deliver 14 in binary form?
It becomes simple through delivery to this power forward and the power to.
So I form these three terms.
How do I find these three two terms?
Very easy.
I initially I have two ways.
If I square it, it becomes two squared.
If I squared it, it becomes ready by four.
If I squared it, it becomes too divided.
If I squared it, it becomes about 16, about 32 to the power of 64.
And so on day two, whatever I'll have at that moment after one iteration where notice is equal to into
it, that is a squared.
Simple as that.
So that's what we are going to.
Do over here there take a loss Edward of the I or know if it is said what does it mean in the loss said
British said simply include it multiply.
E into resultant nature simply multiply in the resultant not a big deal.
Eight And if the bird is not yet, no problem.
What is the second step?
No problem if it is not simply right to be right because I am always taking the last step.
So if B is 1010 initially in the next iteration, B will be 0101.
In the next iteration, B will be 0010 next iteration 0001 in the next iteration zero m right.
Shifting be right.
What does negative mean?
Just shift the bit rightward?
Well, because I want to check all these.
A bit of be right.
And while I am like shifting B ratings to negative B.
And if I'm shifting B so.
What is the third step?
Both at the same time, I have to say, is equal to a square rate.
I have to keep on multiplying it eight days so it will become loaded above it for here to devour it
due to the power.
16.
It will become too squared with, above all, to the beverage and to the devour.
So if the last word is said, then what I'll do is I'll simply multiply it into the resultant word.
I'll multiply and multiply into the resultant eight, whatever that is.
The return value I have, if I multiply into the written word I'll get is true square.
Then again, let's move to the third step.
This is the third step.
Here is the last bit of said no.
If it is not there, do nothing right.
The resultant is still two square and then move to do it through deliberate.
And what happens here is if just say glass it Glastonbury said yes or to stay there then simply multiply
into resultant so it becomes duty bound to win due to the deposit it.
And then finally what we have is b it becomes zero.
So if we become zero, what does it mean?
That we don't have to get you in for the calculations because anything to the power zero is zero.
So I don't have to calculate anything else.
So here, I'll break.
What is the result in that regard?
Because it is due to the power.
And so, of course, you can apply it for Lupin.
Check that if the British multiplied, if not, continue forward.
And I'd be using a by loop because the code becomes really easy to code eight.
But it is quickly.
No this part.
After this, we'll move on to model exponential.
Interesting.
And that's also an interesting part and very easy part.
Right.
So.
Let's call this function power.
Okay.
So this returns me to the power to be.
What I have is I degreaser turned in easily and there didn't should be one who will be who until y is
greater than zero.
What I'll do is simple.
I'll take the last bit.
So if being one, that means.
The last bit of said.
So if you are not clear with all this manipulation and the Nord and other things and simply watch out
the number two.
These are the basics, right?
What I would say is these are individuals to simply multiply in the resulting otherwise, whether it
be said or not, I simply say is it goes to Esquire, then multiplying into A and B slash you go straight
to it means I'm right.
Shifting B right.
So you can do it.
This will also be right shift two times.
Or you can divide it by.
Let it be nature, for one thing.
All you can do.
I'd be where to look if I divided by two.
It is.
But I would be one thing if I do, I multiply by two.
It becomes less should be one eight.
So these are small, small breaks that you should know.
Finally, what I'll do is I'll trade under nothing more to do, just knits.
But in this.
Yeah.
So let's stick to ending.
We got 1020 foot rate.
If you want to check, if you want to print out all these things, you can take like directly out whatever
stuff you want to and check.
How is it working at eight?
But if I do, it is about 20.
It's very simple.
I'll get the perfect answer because there we have used binary in the work because by have we use binding
to work because.
If I died.
If I did be as in binary and there to be approximately.
Ten to the power 18.
Eight.
If I if I multiply if I find out this term.
Well, let me.
If I say into power we will be approximately and the power it.
Then I cannot find out this value.
It will be too huge.
Before that I have more model an just.
Do not worry about that.
The second thing is that okay, I do not have a machine.
That probability of calculating this if we stand about 18 because it will take a lot of time.
So in 1/2 for like an average and once again I can calculate ten to the power, seven steps, eight.
So how many seconds will be required to calculate time to the power rating iterations?
It will be turned into the power 11 seconds.
I guess that is nearly equal to life of art.
It's too huge.
So.
So what we'll do is simply we will simply convert this number into binary.
So in binary it's land will be at most 64 often land and liberating.
And in only 64 operations, only 64 operations, we will simply find out either the power we will be
is very huge.
Always.
You can check this out.
So this vaccine off.
Look, we.
Eight.
Why?
Because we are always dividing by two in every step.
So there will be a time when we will be zero.
In how much time will be zero when the last when the first attribute of beat becomes a lassitude of
being, it goes.
Of it in V.
Eight.
So it's a very good complexity of log B because this power function.
It will be used in many problems and many statements and it will also be used in many.
Mathematical sections.
Eight.
It will also be used to calculate NCR.
It will be used to calculate inverse of a number using mild many things.
Right after this guys will discuss about a snippet and it's stupid as but will be very useful to all
eight.
So we will discuss it and this is just a part of it, right?
Next section will discuss about modular exponential rate, not up to 5 minutes.
So we'll think of ways.